[Music]
hi I'm Miriam from BBC good food and I'm
going to show you how to make an easter
egg first thing you need is an Easter
egg mold I've washed mine in hot soapy
water and you just need to buff it up
with a piece of cotton wool so just give
it a good wipe so there's no marks or
bits of dust in there next thing I need
to do is chop up some chocolate I'm
going to cut this into quarters and keep
1/4 back because I'll add that later so
that's three quarters of the chocolate
is into the bowl so I can get melting
now I need to set this over a pan of
barely simmering water
don't let it simmer or boil just so that
it heats through really gently
so my chocolates melted now it's all
lovely and runny that's what we want and
I've checked that it's reached 55
degrees which is what I need I now need
to cool the chocolate but I still want
it to be melted to do that
the quarter that I kept back I'm gonna
add that in and let it melt in the
residual heat keep the chocolate moving
because you want to cool it down to
about 27 degrees this process of cooling
it down is called tempering and it means
that when you've put the chocolate egg
together it's not going to have any
weird little dots all over it which is
where the chocolate fats are separated
make sure when you check the temperature
you're dipping it into the chocolate and
they're not taking a reading from the
bowl now the chocolates at the right
temperature I can put it into the mold
but just over half of the chocolate in
the mold and then swirl it out and pour
out the excess
and then do the same with the other mold
now they're both coated I need to leave
them to set take a piece of baking
parchment and put it on a tray and then
place the eggs upside down so they set
evenly so they're just gonna go in the
fridge for about 10 minutes to firm up
here's another example using white
chocolate I've dyed the white chocolate
with different food coloring and then
brushed it on the inside of the mold
I've let that set and then I've poured
in dark chocolate or milk chocolate
whatever you like and then you get a
really lovely pattern on the top I've
taken these out of the mold already all
you need to do is flex the mold all the
way around and allow the air bubble to
travel from one side to the other so I'm
just gonna stick those together now I've
put the oven on to about 180 and heat it
up a tray now that that's nice and hot
I'm gonna put the eggs on top of it and
that will melt just the edges it's like
infuse them together I'm gonna put
gloves on to do this because I don't
want to get any fingerprints all over
the eggs so place it on the hot tray and
move it around certain melts so that
edge is nice and gooey
and then put the two together hold it
together really gently until it fuses
and then you can place it onto a plate
Michael a tea towel and a piece of
baking parchment on top of there and
there you go how to make an easter egg
by being a secret food